All right so in the last video we talked about Raymond M units.
Now we're going to talk about VH and VW which is viewport height and viewport widths so the viewport
is this whole area inside the browser.
Basically the browser body.
OK.
And when we say for instance 50 VH which is 50 viewport height it's going to take up 50 of 100 viewport
heights.
And the way we think of this is slices.
So each viewport height is a slice across.
OK it goes up and down and slices across and there's always going to be one hundred of them.
OK.
No matter how big or small the browser is.
You make it tiny you could stretch it across your whole screen there's always one hundred of viewport
heights and each one is a slice.
Now for viewport widths it's the same thing only it goes across and the slices go down.
So there's 100 slices that go this way and you can set your content to take up two or one hundred or
anything between zero and one hundred viewport heights and viewport widths.
So we're going to create a tiny little project kind of a landing page using.
So I can give you an example of how to use these in viewport heights or use much more than viewport
widths because for the most part things go all the way across any way.
So we're going to create a new file here let's call it 1 5 underscore VH underscore VW dot HD CML and
we're going to put our head and body tags it's a V H and V W units and we'll put in our style.
Okay so let's let's add our each team out first and we're gonna put in a header tag and inside the header
let's do an H one we'll just say welcome to our website and we'll put a paragraph.
Let's do Lorem we'll do Lord 15 and see underneath that.
Let's put a link with a class of B T N S we want to link.
So it's gonna be an A tag.
The class of B10 and so I'm going to go anywhere and inside the link we'll just say find out more.
All right.
Now in the style first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to add a little bit of resets so we're going
to use an asterisk meaning target everything and let's set the box sizing to board our box and then
let's remove the margin and padding from everything
OK.
And I'm just going to open this with the live server.
So this is what it should look like.
Notice the margin padding is removed from everything.
Let's add in the body style because I want this to look decent so we'll say font family and let's grab
this right here is a go UI to Homa and for the header
I'm gonna do it.
Let's do a background.
I'm going to add an image.
But for now I'm just going to add a color.
So just a dark color and let's make that the color of the text white.
And let's save that and see what we get.
So by default it's just going to the the background color is going to wrap.
You know it's going to wrap the content.
If we add more paragraphs and stuff it's going to just go down along with the content.
What I want is the header background to take up the entire thing the entire screen and you might think
well let's set the height to 100 percent of its container which is the body.
So let's save that.
OK I saved it and there's no difference.
And this is kind of kind of a gotcha.
I'm just going to show you that if we look at the body.
Right.
Let's let's click on the body here.
So the body is being highlighted you may think the body takes up the entire browser body but it's not
it's just wrapping whatever that whatever is in the content.
Right.
So setting into 100 percent of the body is literally just doing what what it's already doing.
It's just coming down to here we want it to cover everything.
This is where viewport heights come in.
So I'm going to go ahead and change this from 100 percent to 100 VH and save.
And now you can see it can.
It covers everything.
OK regardless of how big or small the browser is you know it can make it bigger or smaller.
It doesn't matter it's taking up 100 viewport heights.
Now if I change this to 50 viewport heights and save it takes up exactly half because remember there's
100 slices right.
This is taking up 50 of those 100 slices.
If I change this to 20 it's going to take up 20 of those 100 slices.
So this makes creating landing pages very easily.
You know it's very popular now to have a like a whole big image with some text and a button.
That's a very popular look and VH allows us to do that very easily.
So let's make this an actual image.
I'm gonna grab a remote image from source dot on Splash dot com and if you go down here let's see.
So random from a collection.
Let's grab let's grab the daily photo.
So this right here.
This will give us a random daily photo I'm going to grab that and I'm going to add this to the background
I don't know if I've showed you this before but you can have a background color and then put a U.R.L.
after it.
So basically of the color and then you have the image on top of it.
So let's put in here that link.
Let's save it and go back.
And now you'll see we have a background image yours will probably be different.
Close that up yours will probably be different because it's a daily photo and they change it daily.
Now notice that it's repeating and I don't think I've had the chance to even show you this.
Let's see the repeat since our window is bigger than the actual image.
Then it repeats.
So we're going to add some other properties to this background.
So one is gonna be no repeat.
Save that.
And now you can see it doesn't repeat OK.
Another thing I want to do is I want it to cover.
I want to center it and I want it to cover the whole page the whole background.
So in addition to no repeat.
Let's do center center on the x and y access and then slash cover and save.
And now it covers the entire thing.
If I stretch this so it's it's still it's always going to cover.
So that's gonna be your most popular your most popular way to do this or the most common way to do this.
Now let's work on actually centering the text.
Now this is where flex blocks actually works really well but we haven't gotten to that yet so we're
just going to use patterns and stuff like that.
So for the header first of all I want to text align everything and I could stop here I mean I showed
you guys what the h and why I didn't show you VW yet but yeah actually let's do that first so let's
add in a width of let's say 50 V W and save.
And now you'll see it's only going to take up half.
Okay.
So it's the exact same thing only it goes horizontal instead of vertical but I personally don't use
VW that much because as you can see it goes all the way across any anyway the height is a different
story it doesn't.
It's not going to go all the way down on its own but yeah that's VW.
So let's go ahead and text aligned to the center.
So we'll save that.
Now everything is aligned to the center.
Make this a little bigger and let's see now what I want to do is add some padding within the header.
Let's do two Ram.
So now there's two Ram padding all around.
But I want to push this down more and there's better ways to do this with Flex blocks.
We could we could align it directly in the middle but we haven't gotten to that yet.
So I'm just going to add padding top let's do padding top.
Let's try.
Two hundred.
Now will we use Ram units.
Let's do five ram.
No.
We want more than that.
Let's do 10 that's still still not low enough let's do 15.
All right.
And if I were to make this smaller.
Good so let's let's make this look somewhat decent.
We're going to target some of these other elements like the H one the paragraph the button and style.
Those a little bit.
So it's a header.
Actually we want header H1 and we're going to change the font size to three ram.
So that's going to be six sixteen is the default route.
Font size it's gonna be sixteen times three and four the paragraph say header paragraph.
Let's do margin and let's do one Ram.
Top and bottom zero left and right.
That way it pushes the link down and pushes the header up.
And then for the button or that I should say the link with the class of B10 n where we'll just make
that look decent.
And I know that this doesn't have anything to do with VH and VW but I want to reiterate things we've
already gone over.
So we want this button to be inline block because by default links are inline and then we're gonna add
text decoration none.
Let's do a background of light grey.
Change the color to dark grey and do the padding we'll use Ram we'll do zero point seventy five on the
top and bottom.
And to ram on the left and right.
And save.
And there's our button.
OK.
So it looks a little better.
And e I mean the text might blend and not blend well with the background image but later on I'm going
to show you how we can use CSX overlays we can have like a dark overlay over the image so that the text
is more readable so like I said this the viewport heights it's it's always gonna be a hundred even if
we have content below it.
So let's go below the header and let's add a section and we'll put an H three we'll just say like about
our company and then we'll put a paragraph let's do Lorem 50
and then I'm just going to add for that section I'm just gonna add padding of to ram just so it's not
right up against the edge OK.
So notice that it's still it's still gonna take up 100 viewport height and then immediately when I scroll
down we're gonna see that content and it doesn't matter how how tall or short the browser is.
So right now you might think that as we scroll we'll see more of the image.
But no.
As we scroll it's going to go right to that content.
So viewport Heights is great for landing pages like this where you have this large image because it
doesn't matter where.
How how tall or short your browser is.
As soon as you scroll down you're going to see the content.
It only takes up one 100 viewport heights of whatever the current browser size is.
All right.
Now let's see if we make this smaller like that still looks good.
So this is actually pretty responsive.
Let's see.
Let's actually check it out with with the chrome tools device toolbar.
So we're going to hit that case.
So that looks pretty good we'll look on it on an iPad.
Good.
Now let's try an iPhone landscape.
So we need to make this a little bigger and we'll click the landscape.
So in this case I would probably want this too.
Yeah that doesn't look very good.
So I'd want this to be moved up.
So let's let's practice our media query and we don't have to do much we always we just need to change
the padding of the header.
So let's say media and I would say max height.
So max height let's do 450 pixels.
What this means is that when the the viewport is four hundred and fifty pixels or less then this styling
will kick in.
So we'll see a header and see we initially set the padding top to what I think it was 15 Ram.
So let's let's try five REM and save.
And then we go so now it looks good on landscape and if we go back you can see it goes back to 15 REM.
So it's a good example of where and when to use a media query.
All right.
So I think that's going to be it guys.
What I want to do in the next video is take our hotel Web site project and I want to make that responsive
so we're actually going to be adding media queries to that project and just making it overall making
it better.
All right.
So I'll see you in the next video.